Page | 8 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 

“The owls ... aren’t bringing me news,” said Harry 
tonelessly. 

“I don’t believe it,” said Aunt Petunia at once. 

“No more do I,” said Uncle Vernon forcefully. 

“We know you’re up to something funny,” said Aunt 
Petunia. 

“We’re not stupid, you know,” said Uncle Vernon. 

“Well, that’s news to me,” said Harry, his temper 
rising, and before the Dursleys could call him back, 
he had wheeled about, crossed the front lawn, 
stepped over the low garden wall, and was striding off 
up the street. 

He was in trouble now and he knew it. He would have 
to face his aunt and uncle later and pay the price for 
his rudeness, but he did not care very much just at 
the moment; he had much more pressing matters on 
his mind. 

Harry was sure that the cracking noise had been 
made by someone Apparating or Disapparating. It 
was exactly the sound Dobby the house-elf made 
when he vanished into thin air. Was it possible that 
Dobby was here in Privet Drive? Could Dobby be 
following him right at this very moment? As this 
thought occurred he wheeled around and stared back 
down Privet Drive, but it appeared to be completely 
deserted again and Harry was sure that Dobby did 
not know how to become invisible... 

He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was 
taking, for he had pounded these streets so often 
lately that his feet carried him to his favorite haunts 
automatically. Every few steps he glanced back over 

Page | 9 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




his shoulder. Someone magical had been near him as 
he lay among Aunt Petunias dying begonias, he was 
sure of it. Why hadn’t they spoken to him, why hadn’t 
they made contact, why were they hiding now? 

And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his 
certainty leaked away. 

Perhaps it hadn’t been a magical sound after all. 
Perhaps he was so desperate for the tiniest sign of 
contact from the world to which he belonged that he 
was simply overreacting to perfectly ordinary noises. 
Could he be sure it hadn’t been the sound of 
something breaking inside a neighbor’s house? 

Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach 
and, before he knew it, the feeling of hopelessness 
that had plagued him all summer rolled over him 
once again... 

Tomorrow morning he would be awoken by the alarm 
at five o’clock so that he could pay the owl that 
delivered the Daily Prophet — but was there any point 
in continuing to take it? Harry merely glanced at the 
front page before throwing it aside these days; when 
the idiots who ran the paper finally realized that 
Voldemort was back it would be headline news, and 
that was the only kind Harry cared about. 

If he was lucky, there would also be owls carrying 
letters from his best friends, Ron and Hermione, 
though any expectation he had had that their letters 
would bring him news had long since been dashed. 

“We can’t say much about you-know-what, 
obviously...” “We’ve been told not to say anything 
important in case our letters go astray...” “We’re quite 
busy but I can’t give you details here...” “There’s a fair 



Page | 10 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




amount going on, we’ll tell you everything when we see 
you...” 

But when were they going to see him? Nobody seemed 
too bothered with a precise date. Hermione had 
scribbled, “I expect we’ll be seeing you quite soon” 
inside his birthday card, but how soon was soon? As 
far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their 
letters, Hermione and Ron were in the same place, 
presumably at Ron’s parents’ house. He could hardly 
bear to think of the pair of them having fun at the 
Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive. In fact, he 
was so angry at them that he had thrown both their 
birthday presents of Honeydukes chocolates away 
unopened, though he had regretted this after eating 
the wilting salad Aunt Petunia had provided for 
dinner that night. 

And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why 
wasn’t he, Harry, busy? Hadn’t he proved himself 
capable of handling much more than they? Had they 
all forgotten what he had done? Hadn’t it been he who 
had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric being 
murdered and been tied to that tombstone and nearly 
killed ... ? 

Don’t think about that, Harry told himself sternly for 
the hundredth time that summer. It was bad enough 
that he kept revisiting the graveyard in his 
nightmares, without dwelling on it in his waking 
moments too. 

He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent; halfway 
along he passed the narrow alleyway down the side of 
a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his 
godfather. Sirius, at least, seemed to understand how 
Harry was feeling; admittedly his letters were just as 
empty of proper news as Ron and Hermione’s, but at 



Page | 11 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




least they contained words of caution and consolation 
instead of tantalizing hints: 

“ I know this must be frustrating for you...” “Keep your 
nose clean and everything will be okay...” “Be careful 
and don’t do anything rash...” 

Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia 
Crescent, turned into Magnolia Road, and headed 
toward the darkening play park, he had (by and large) 
done as Sirius advised; he had at least resisted the 
temptation to tie his trunk to his broomstick and set 
off for the Burrow by himself. In fact Harry thought 
his behavior had been very good considering how 
frustrated and angry he felt at being stuck in Privet 
Drive this long, reduced to hiding in flower beds in 
the hope of hearing something that might point to 
what Lord Voldemort was doing. Nevertheless, it was 
quite galling to be told not to be rash by a man who 
had served twelve years in the wizard prison, 

Azkaban, escaped, attempted to commit the murder 
he had been convicted for in the first place, then gone 
on the run with a stolen hippogriff. . . 

Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off 
across the parched grass. The park was as empty as 
the surrounding streets. When he reached the swings 
he sank onto the only one that Dudley and his friends 
had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm around 
the chain, and stared moodily at the ground. He 
would not be able to hide in the Dursleys’ flower bed 
again. Tomorrow he would have to think of some 
fresh way of listening to the news. In the meantime, 
he had nothing to look forward to but another 
restless, disturbed night, because even when he 
escaped nightmares about Cedric he had unsettling 
dreams about long dark corridors, all finishing in 
dead ends and locked doors, which he supposed had 
something to do with the trapped feeling he had when 
Page | 12 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




he was awake. Often the old scar on his forehead 
prickled uncomfortably, but he did not fool himself 
that Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very 
interesting anymore... In the past his scar hurting 
had warned that Voldemort was getting stronger 
again, but now that Voldemort was back they would 
probably remind him that its regular irritation was 
only to be expected... Nothing to worry about ... old 
news ... 

The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he 
wanted to yell with fury. If it hadn’t been for him, 
nobody would even have known Voldemort was back! 
And his reward was to be stuck in Little Whinging for 
four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical 
world, reduced to squatting among dying begonias so 
that he could hear about water-skiing budgerigars! 
How could Dumbledore have forgotten him so easily? 
Why had Ron and Hermione got together without 
inviting him along too? How much longer was he 
supposed to endure Sirius telling him to sit tight and 
be a good boy; or resist the temptation to write to the 
stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Voldemort 
had returned? These furious thoughts whirled around 
in Harry’s head, and his insides writhed with anger as 
a sultry, velvety night fell around him, the air full of 
the smell of warm, dry grass and the only sound that 
of the low grumble of traffic on the road beyond the 
park railings. 

He did not know how long he had sat on the swing 
before the sound of voices interrupted his musings 
and he looked up. The street-lamps from the 
surrounding roads were casting a misty glow strong 
enough to silhouette a group of people making their 
way across the park. One of them was singing a loud, 
crude song. The others were laughing. A soft ticking 
noise came from several expensive racing bikes that 
they were wheeling along. 

Page | 13 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front 
was unmistakably his cousin, Dudley Dursley, 
wending his way home, accompanied by his faithful 
gang. 

Dudley was as vast as ever, but a year’s hard dieting 
and the discovery of a new talent had wrought quite a 
change in his physique. As Uncle Vernon delightedly 
told anyone who would listen, Dudley had recently 
become the Junior Heavyweight Inter-School Boxing 
Champion of the Southeast. “The noble sport,” as 
Uncle Vernon called it, had made Dudley even more 
formidable than he had seemed to Harry in the 
primary school days when he had served as Dudley’s 
first punching bag. Harry was not remotely afraid of 
his cousin anymore but he still didn’t think that 
Dudley learning to punch harder and more accurately 
was cause for celebration. Neighborhood children all 
around were terrified of him — even more terrified 
than they were of “that Potter boy,” who, they had 
been warned, was a hardened hooligan who attended 
St. Brutus’s Secure Center for Incurably Criminal 
Boys. 

Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass 
and wondered whom they had been beating up 
tonight. Look round, Harry found himself thinking as 
he watched them. Come on ... look round ... I’m sitting 
here all alone... Come and have ago... 

If Dudley’s friends saw him sitting here, they would 
be sure to make a beeline for him, and what would 
Dudley do then? He wouldn’t want to lose face in 
front of the gang, but he’d be terrified of provoking 
Harry. . . It would be really fun to watch Dudley’s 
dilemma; to taunt him, watch him, with him 
powerless to respond . . . and if any of the others tried 
hitting Harry, Harry was ready — he had his wand . . . 
let them try ... He’d love to vent some of his 
Page | 14 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




frustration on the boys who had once made his life 
hell — 



But they did not turn around, they did not see him, 
they were almost at the railings. Harry mastered the 
impulse to call after them... Seeking a fight was not a 
smart move... He must not use magic... He would be 
risking expulsion again... 

Dudley’s gang’s voices died; they were out of sight, 
heading along Magnolia Road. 

There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing 
rash. Kept my nose clean. Exactly the opposite of what 
you’d have done ... 

He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and 
Uncle Vernon seemed to feel that whenever Dudley 
turned up was the right time to be home, and anytime 
after that was much too late. Uncle Vernon had 
threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home 
after Dudley again, so, stifling a yawn, still scowling, 
Harry set off toward the park gate. 

Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, 
square houses with perfectly manicured lawns, all 
owned by large, square owners who drove very clean 
cars similar to Uncle Vernon’s. Harry preferred Little 
Whinging by night, when the curtained windows 
made patches of jewel-bright colors in the darkness 
and he ran no danger of hearing disapproving 
mutters about his “delinquent” appearance when he 
passed the householders. He walked quickly, so that 
halfway along Magnolia Road Dudley’s gang came into 
view again; they were saying their farewells at the 
entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry stepped into 
the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited. 
Page | 15 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 
"... squealed like a pig, didn’t he?” Malcolm was 
saying, to guffaws from the others. 

“Nice right hook, Big D,” said Piers. 

“Same time tomorrow?” said Dudley. 

“Round at my place, my parents are out,” said 
Gordon. 

“See you then,” said Dudley. 

“Bye Dud!” 

“See ya, Big D!” 

Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on 
before setting off again. When their voices had faded 
once more he headed around the corner into Magnolia 
Crescent and by walking very quickly he soon came 
within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling 
along at his ease, humming tunelessly. 

“Hey, Big D!” 

Dudley turned. 

“Oh,” he grunted. “It’s you.” 

“How long have you been ‘Big D’ then?” said Harry. 

“Shut it,” snarled Dudley, turning away again. 

“Cool name,” said Harry, grinning and falling into 
step beside his cousin. “But you’ll always be Ickle 
Diddykins to me.” 

“I said, SHUT IT!” said Dudley, whose ham-like hands 
had curled into fists. 

Page | 16 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t the boys know that’s what your mum calls 
you?” 

“Shut your face.” 

“You don’t tell her to shut her face. What about 
‘popkin’ and ‘Dinky Diddydums,’ can I use them 
then?” 

Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself 
from hitting Harry seemed to be demanding all his 
self-control. 

“So who’ve you been beating up tonight?” Harry 
asked, his grin fading. “Another ten-year-old? I know 
you did Mark Evans two nights ago — ” 

“He was asking for it,” snarled Dudley. 

“Oh yeah?” 

“He cheeked me.” 

“Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that’s been 
taught to walk on its hind legs? ’Cause that’s not 
cheek, Dud, that’s true ...” 

A muscle was twitching in Dudley’s jaw. It gave Harry 
enormous satisfaction to know how furious he was 
making Dudley; he felt as though he was siphoning 
off his own frustration into his cousin, the only outlet 
he had. 

They turned right down the narrow alleyway where 
Harry had first seen Sirius and which formed a 
shortcut between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria 
Walk. It was empty and much darker than the streets 
it linked because there were no streetlamps. Their 



Page | 17 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




footsteps were muffled between garage walls on one 
side and a high fence on the other. 

“Think you’re a big man carrying that thing, don’t 
you?” Dudley said after a few seconds. 

“What thing?” 

“That — that thing you’re hiding.” 

Harry grinned again. 

“Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I s’pose 
if you were, you wouldn’t be able to walk and talk at 
the same time...” 

Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look 
sideways at it. 

“You’re not allowed,” Dudley said at once. “I know 
you’re not. You’d get expelled from that freak school 
you go to.” 

“How d’you know they haven’t changed the rules, Big 
D?” 

“They haven’t,” said Dudley, though he didn’t sound 
completely convinced. Harry laughed softly. 

“You haven’t got the guts to take me on without that 
thing, have you?” Dudley snarled. 

“Whereas you just need four mates behind you before 
you can beat up a ten-year-old. You know that boxing 
title you keep banging on about? How old was your 
opponent? Seven? Eight?” 

“He was sixteen for your information,” snarled 
Dudley, “and he was out cold for twenty minutes after 

Page | 18 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




I’d finished with him and he was twice as heavy as 
you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing 
out — ” 

“Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing 
champ frightened of nasty Harry’s wand?” 

“Not this brave at night, are you?” sneered Dudley. 

“This is night, Diddykins. That’s what we call it when 
it goes all dark like this.” 

“I mean when you’re in bed!” Dudley snarled. 

He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at 
his cousin. From the little he could see of Dudley’s 
large face, he was wearing a strangely triumphant 
look. 

“What d’you mean, I’m not brave in bed?” said Harry, 
completely nonplussed. “What — am I supposed to be 
frightened of pillows or something?” 

“I heard you last night,” said Dudley breathlessly. 
“Talking in your sleep. Moaning.” 

“What d’you mean?” Harry said again, but there was 
a cold, plunging sensation in his stomach. He had 
revisited the graveyard last night in his dreams. 

Dudley gave a harsh bark of laughter then adopted a 
high-pitched, whimpering voice. “ ‘Don’t kill Cedric! 
Don’t kill Cedric!’ Who’s Cedric — your boyfriend?” 

“I — you’re lying — ” said Harry automatically. But his 
mouth had gone dry. He knew Dudley wasn’t lying — 
how else would he know about Cedric? 



