Page | 89 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




The door opened and a long mane of red hair 
appeared. 

“Oh hello, Harry!” said Ron’s younger sister, Ginny, 
brightly. “I thought I heard your voice.” 

Turning to Fred and George she said, “It’s no go with 
the Extendable Ears, she’s gone and put an 
Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen door.” 

“How d’you know?” said George, looking crestfallen. 

“Tonks told me how to find out,” said Ginny. “You just 
chuck stuff at the door and if it can’t make contact 
the door’s been Imperturbed. I’ve been flicking 
Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they 
just soar away from it, so there’s no way the 
Extendable Ears will be able to get under the gap.” 

Fred heaved a deep sigh. “Shame. I really fancied 
finding out what old Snape’s been up to.” 

“Snape?” said Harry quickly. “Is he here?” 

“Yeah,” said George, carefully closing the door and 
sitting down on one of the beds; Fred and Ginny 
followed. “Giving a report. Top secret.” 

“Git,” said Fred idly. 

“He’s on our side now,” said Hermione reprovingly. 

Ron snorted. “Doesn’t stop him being a git. The way 
he looks at us when he sees us...” 

“Bill doesn’t like him either,” said Ginny, as though 
that settled the matter. 



Page | 90 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet; but his 
thirst for information was now overcoming his urge to 
keep shouting. He sank onto the bed opposite the 
others. 

“Is Bill here?” he asked. “I thought he was working in 
Egypt.” 

“He applied for a desk job so he could come home and 
work for the Order,” said Fred. “He says he misses the 
tombs, but,” he smirked, “there are compensations...” 

“What d’you mean?” 

“Remember old Fleur Delacour?” said George. “She’s 
got a job at Gringotts to eemprove ’er Eeenglish — ” 

“ — and Bill’s been giving her a lot of private lessons,” 
sniggered Fred. 

“Charlie’s in the Order too,” said George, “but he’s 
still in Romania, Dumbledore wants as many foreign 
wizards brought in as possible, so Charlie’s trying to 
make contacts on his days off.” 

“Couldn’t Percy do that?” Harry asked. The last he 
had heard, the third Weasley brother was working in 
the Department of International Magical Cooperation 
at the Ministry of Magic. 

At these words all the Weasleys and Hermione 
exchanged darkly significant looks. 

“Whatever you do, don’t mention Percy in front of 
Mum and Dad,” Ron told Harry in a tense voice. 

“Why not?” 



Page | 91 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Because every time Percy’s name’s mentioned, Dad 
breaks whatever he’s holding and Mum starts crying,” 
Fred said. 

“It’s been awful,” said Ginny sadly. 

“I think we’re well shut of him,” said George with an 
uncharacteristically ugly look on his face. 

“What’s happened?” Harry said. 

“Percy and Dad had a row,” said Fred. “I’ve never seen 
Dad row with anyone like that. It’s normally Mum 
who shouts...” 

“It was the first week back after term ended,” said 
Ron. “We were about to come and join the Order. 
Percy came home and told us he’d been promoted.” 

“You’re kidding?” said Harry. 

Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly 
ambitious, Harry’s impression was that Percy had not 
made a great success of his first job at the Ministry of 
Magic. Percy had committed the fairly large oversight 
of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled 
by Lord Voldemort (not that the Ministry had believed 
that — they all thought that Mr. Crouch had gone 
mad). 

“Yeah, we were all surprised,” said George, “because 
Percy got into a load of trouble about Crouch, there 
was an inquiry and everything. They said Percy ought 
to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and 
informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left 
him in charge, he wasn’t going to complain...” 

“So how come they promoted him?” 



Page | 92 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s exactly what we wondered,” said Ron, who 
seemed very keen to keep normal conversation going 
now that Harry had stopped yelling. “He came home 
really pleased with himself — even more pleased than 
usual if you can imagine that — and told Dad he’d 
been offered a position in Fudge’s own office. A really 
good one for someone only a year out of Hogwarts — 
Junior Assistant to the Minister. He expected Dad to 
be all impressed, I think.” 

“Only Dad wasn’t,” said Fred grimly. 

“Why not?” said Harry. 

“Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the 
Ministry checking that nobody’s having any contact 
with Dumbledore,” said George. 

“Dumbledore’s name’s mud with the Ministry these 
days, see,” said Fred. “They all think he’s just making 
trouble saying You-Know- Who’s back.” 

“Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone who’s 
in league with Dumbledore can clear out their desks,” 
said George. 

“Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows he’s 
friendly with Dumbledore, and he’s always thought 
Dad’s a bit of a weirdo because of his Muggle 
obsession — ” 

“But what’s this got to do with Percy?” asked Harry, 
confused. 

“I’m coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants 
Percy in his office because he wants to use him to spy 
on the family — and Dumbledore.” 



Harry let out a low whistle. 

Page | 93 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Bet Percy loved that.” 

Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way. 

“He went completely berserk. He said — well, he said 
loads of terrible stuff. He said he’s been having to 
struggle against Dad’s lousy reputation ever since he 
joined the Ministry and that Dad’s got no ambition 
and that’s why we’ve always been — you know — not 
had a lot of money, I mean — ” 

“ What?” said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a 
noise like an angry cat. 

“I know,” said Ron in a low voice. “And it got worse. 

He said Dad was an idiot to run around with 
Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was heading for big 
trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and 
that he — Percy — knew where his loyalty lay and it 
was with the Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were 
going to become traitors to the Ministry he was going 
to make sure everyone knew he didn’t belong to our 
family anymore. And he packed his bags the same 
night and left. He’s living here in London now.” 

Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked 
Percy least of Ron’s brothers, but he had never 
imagined he would say such things to Mr. Weasley. 

“Mum’s been in a right state,” said Ron. “You know — 
crying and stuff. She came up to London to try and 
talk to Percy but he slammed the door in her face. I 
dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work — 
ignores him, I s’pose.” 

“But Percy must know Voldemort’s back,” said Harry 
slowly. “He’s not stupid, he must know your mum 
and dad wouldn’t risk everything without proof — ” 



Page | 94 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row,” said 
Ron, shooting Harry a furtive look. “Percy said the 
only evidence was your word and ... I dunno ... he 
didn’t think it was good enough.” 

“Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously,” said 
Hermione tartly, and the others all nodded. 

“What are you talking about?” Harry asked, looking 
around at them all. They were all regarding him 
warily. 

“Haven’t — haven’t you been getting the Daily 
Prophet?” Hermione asked nervously. 

“Yeah, I have!” said Harry. 

“Have you — er — been reading it thoroughly?” 
Hermione asked still more anxiously. 

“Not cover to cover,” said Harry defensively. “If they 
were going to report anything about Voldemort it 
would be headline news, wouldn’t it!” 

The others flinched at the sound of the name. 
Hermione hurried on, “Well, you’d need to read it 
cover to cover to pick it up, but they — um — they 
mention you a couple of times a week.” 

“But I’d have seen — ” 

“Not if you’ve only been reading the front page, you 
wouldn’t,” said Hermione, shaking her head. “I’m not 
talking about big articles. They just slip you in, like 
you’re a standing joke.” 

“What d’you — ?” 



Page | 95 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“It’s quite nasty, actually,” said Hermione in a voice of 
forced calm. “They’re just building on Rita’s stuff.” 

“But she’s not writing for them anymore, is she?” 

“Oh no, she’s kept her promise — not that she’s got 
any choice,” Hermione added with satisfaction. “But 
she laid the foundation for what they’re trying to do 
now.” 

“Which is what?” said Harry impatiently. 

“Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing 
all over the place and saying your scar was hurting 
and all that?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita 
Skeeter’s stories about him in a hurry. 

“Well, they’re writing about you as though you’re this 
deluded, attention-seeking person who thinks he’s a 
great tragic hero or something,” said Hermione, very 
fast, as though it would be less unpleasant for Harry 
to hear these facts quickly. “They keep slipping in 
snide comments about you. If some far-fetched story 
appears they say something like ‘a tale worthy of 
Harry Potter’ and if anyone has a funny accident or 
anything it’s let’s hope he hasn’t got a scar on his 
forehead or we’ll be asked to worship him next — ’ ” 

“I don’t want anyone to worship — ” Harry began 
hotly. 

“I know you don’t,” said Hermione quickly, looking 
frightened. “I know, Harry. But you see what they’re 
doing? They want to turn you into someone nobody 
will believe. Fudge is behind it, I’ll bet anything. They 
want wizards on the street to think you’re just some 
stupid boy who’s a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous 
Page | 96 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




tall stories because he loves being famous and wants 
to keep it going.” 

“I didn’t ask — I didn’t want — Voldemort killed my 
parentsV’ Harry spluttered. “I got famous because he 
murdered my family but couldn’t kill me! Who wants 
to be famous for that? Don’t they think I’d rather it’d 
never — ” 

“We know, Harry,” said Ginny earnestly. 

“And of course, they didn’t report a word about the 
dementors attacking you,” said Hermione. “Someone’s 
told them to keep that quiet. That should’ve been a 
really big story, out-of-control dementors. They 
haven’t even reported that you broke the International 
Statute of Secrecy — we thought they would, it would 
tie in so well with this image of you as some stupid 
show-off — we think they’re biding their time until 
you’re expelled, then they’re really going to go to town 
— I mean, if you’re expelled, obviously,” she went on 
hastily, “you really shouldn’t be, not if they abide by 
their own laws, there’s no case against you.” 

They were back on the hearing and Harry did not 
want to think about it. He cast around for another 
change of subject, but was saved the necessity of 
finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the 
stairs. 

“Uh-oh.” 

Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was 
another loud crack and he and George vanished. 
Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley appeared in the bedroom 
doorway. 

“The meeting’s over, you can come down and have 
dinner now, everyone’s dying to see you, Harry. And 

Page | 97 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




who’s left all those Dungbombs outside the kitchen 
door?” 



“Crookshanks,” said Ginny unblushingly. “He loves 
playing with them.” 

“Oh,” said Mrs. Weasley, “I thought it might have 
been Kreacher, he keeps doing odd things like that. 
Now don’t forget to keep your voices down in the hall. 
Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you been 
doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please...” 

Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother 
out of the room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and 
Hermione again. Both of them were watching him 
apprehensively, as though they feared that he would 
start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. 
The sight of them looking so nervous made him feel 
slightly ashamed. 

“Look ...” he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and 
Hermione said quietly, “We knew you’d be angry, 
Harry, we really don’t blame you, but you’ve got to 
understand, we did try and persuade Dumbledore — ” 

“Yeah, I know,” said Harry grudgingly. 

He cast around for a topic to change the subject from 
Dumbledore — the very thought of him made Harry’s 
insides burn with anger again. 

“Who’s Kreacher?” he asked. 

“The house-elf who lives here,” said Ron. “Nutter. 
Never met one like him.” 

Hermione frowned at Ron. 

“He’s not a nutter, Ron — ” 

Page | 98 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“His life’s ambition is to have his head cut off and 
stuck up on a plaque just like his mother,” said Ron 
irritably. “Is that normal, Hermione?” 

“Well — well, if he is a bit strange, it’s not his fault — ” 

Ron rolled his eyes at Harry. 

“Hermione still hasn’t given up on spew — ” 

“It’s not ‘spew’!” said Hermione heatedly. “It’s the 
Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it’s 
not just me, Dumbledore says we should be kind to 
Kreacher too — ” 

“Yeah, yeah,” said Ron. “C’mon, I’m starving.” 

He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, 
but before they could descend the stairs — “Hold it!” 
Ron breathed, flinging out an arm to stop Harry and 
Hermione walking any farther. “They’re still in the 
hall, we might be able to hear something — ” 

The three of them looked cautiously over the 
banisters. The gloomy hallway below was packed with 
witches and wizards, including all of Harry’s guard. 
They were whispering excitedly together. In the very 
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired 
head and prominent nose of his least favorite teacher 
at Hogwarts, Professor Snape. Harry leaned farther 
over the banisters. He was very interested in what 
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . 

A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front 
of Harry’s eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George 
on the landing above, cautiously lowering the 
Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people below. 
A moment later, however, they began to move toward 
the front door and out of sight. 

Page | 99 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix -J.K. Rowling 




“Dammit,” Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted 
the Extendable Ear back up again. 

They heard the front door open and then close. 

“Snape never eats here,” Ron told Harry quietly. 
“Thank God. C’mon.” 

“And don’t forget to keep your voice down in the hall, 
Harry,” Hermione whispered. 

As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall 
they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front 
door, magically sealing its many locks and bolts 
behind those who had just left. 

“We’re eating down in the kitchen,” Mrs. Weasley 
whispered, meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. 
“Harry, dear, if youll just tiptoe across the hall, it’s 
through this door here — ” 

CRASH. 

“Tonksl” cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to 
look behind her. 

“I’m sorry!” wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the 
floor. “It’s that stupid umbrella stand, that’s the 
second time I’ve tripped over — ” 

But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, 
earsplitting, bloodcurdling screech. 

The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed 
earlier had flown apart, but there was no door behind 
them. For a split second, Harry thought he was 
looking through a window, a window behind which an 
old woman in a black cap was screaming and 
screaming as though she was being tortured — then 
